# Generating custom pages using JavaScript

In addition to the more static pages generated by Markdown and the
one-off pages added via SvelteKit, Mathlified also support building
custom pages using JavaScript.

Working in JavaScript means that we can produce content in a general
purpose programming language. The possibilities are limitless!

## Templates

Since you can write any JavaScript code, you will have to tell
Mathlified how to convert your files into the rendered pages.
Mathlified uses the idea of "templates" to tackle this problem.

We create a template by writing a Svelte component in the
`src/templates` folder. This component must accept a prop named `mod`,
and use it to render out a page. Any content named `xxx.template.js`
(or ts) in the content directory will be this _module_.

### The "simple" example

It is easier to learn with examples rather than all these theory so
the rest of this chapter will provide that.

We start with the "simple" template. Look for the
`src/extensions/Simple.svelte` along with the
`02a-simple-example-1.simple.js` and `02b-simple-example-2.simple.ts`
"modules" in the `src/content/03-custom-pages` directory.

Each "simple" file in the content folder exports the variables
`question` and `answer`, which is then rendered by `Simple.svelte`.

## Exercise

Create a custom template of your own by writing a `myTemplate.Svelte`
file in the `src/templates` folder, and create content using this
template by adding `myPage.myTemplate.js` files to the `src/content`
folder.
